CODEBOOK

The run_analysis.R file contains the code required to process data as required by the "Getting and Cleaning Data" 
peer reviewed course assignment.

the following actions were undertaken to process the data.

1. Download the "Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones Data" data files from the following website;

http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones

This data set contains measurements taken by Samsung smart phones of individual test subjects undettaking 
a number of physical activities. The measurements taken from the inertial sensors
within the smart phone recorded motion of the test subject as they undertook each task.

The dataset consisted of two components, identified as the "train" and "test" sets.


2. Apply column names to the individual data sets based on the "features.txt" file obtained from the UCI website.


3. Apply descriptive labels to each of the activities undertaken by the test subjects. The original data sets
identified each activity with a numeric code, and provided a txt file links the class labels with their activity name.
A user defined function, " act_label" was written to loop over the raw data and replace the ativity code with a descriptice activity name.

4. A column name was appended to the dataset containing the details of the subjct undertaking ach activity.

5. The relevant compnents of the individual data components were bound together using the cbind function to creat a single data frame for each of the "test" and "train" sets.

6. The process above was repeated for each of the two "train" and "test" data sets.

7. The "train" and "test dataframes" were then merged using the rowbind function to create a data frame identified as "Merged_data"

8. Next the measurements relating to mean and standard deviation measurements were extracted from "Merged_data" to create a new data frame, 
"Tidydata." To create "Tidydata," first vectors of the columns that contained the subject and activity data from "Merged_data" were created. 
The Gropl function was then used to subset only those columns of "Merged_data" that contained mean and standard deviation measurements. 
The subject, activity, mean and standard deviation columns were then rebound using cbind to create a new version of "Tidy_data" that only contained
the relevant data columns.

9. gsub was then used to substitute descriptive variable names for the existing abbreviated names.

10. Finally the iformation in Tidydata was summarised with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject. This was achieved by grouping the 
data in Tidydata by subject and activity and then applying the summarise_all function in R to created a new data frame, "Final_data."
